id: 29301
date: 12/24/2017
title: EMC VNX1 / VNX2 Family Cross Site Scripting Vulnerability
author: bot
cves: 

EMC VNX1 and VNX2 Family Reflected Cross Site Scripting Vulnerability in VNX Control Station

CVE Identifier: CVE-2017-14383
Severity Rating: CVSS v3 Base Score: 6.1 (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:N) 

Affected products:  
Dell EMC VNX2 versions prior to Operating Environment for File 8.1.9.217
Dell EMC VNX1 versions prior to Operating Environment for File 7.1.80.8

Summary:  
A fix is available for certain versions of VNX Control Station for VNX1 and VNX2 that contain a Reflected Cross Site Scripting vulnerability. This vulnerability could potentially be exploited by malicious users to compromise the affected system.

Details:  
A web server error page in Dell EMC VNX Control Station is impacted by a reflected cross-site scripting vulnerability. A remote unauthenticated attacker could potentially exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary HTML code in the user's browser session in the context of the affected web application. 

Resolution:  
The following releases contain resolutions to the vulnerability:
 The following releases contain resolutions to the vulnerability:
*  Dell EMC VNX2 OE for File 8.1.9.217
*  Dell EMC VNX1 OE for File 7.1.80.8


EMC recommends all customers upgrade at the earliest opportunity. 

Link to remedies:

To upgrade your EMC VNX system contact EMC VNX Customer Support: https://support.emc.com  
Registered EMC Support customers can download EMC VNX software from the EMC Online Support web site at https://support.emc.com.


[The following is standard text included in all security advisories.  Please do not change or delete.]

Read and use the information in this EMC Security Advisory to assist in avoiding any situation that might arise from the problems described herein. If you have any questions regarding this product alert, contact EMC Software Technical Support at 1-877-534-2867.

For an explanation of Severity Ratings, refer to EMC Knowledgebase solution emc218831. EMC recommends all customers take into account both the base score and any relevant temporal and environmental scores which may impact the potential severity associated with particular security vulnerability.

EMC recommends that all users determine the applicability of this information to their individual situations and take appropriate action. The information set forth herein is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. EMC disclaims all warranties, either express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-infringement. In no event, shall EMC or its suppliers, be liable for any damages whatsoever including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special damages, even if EMC or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, so the foregoing limitation may not apply.


#  0day.today [2023-03-23]  #